README.md, before:

# deriv-last-digit

Small Node.js utility that connects to Deriv's public WebSocket API and emits the "last digit" of the latest tick for each volatility index every 15 seconds.

Important notes
- This tool only fetches market tick values and extracts the last digit of the numeric quote. It does not provide predictions or trading strategies.
- Use responsibly. Respect Deriv's terms of service, rate limits, and rules about automated access.

Quick start

1. Install dependencies

```bash
cd ~/Desktop/deriv-last-digit
npm install
```

2. Run

```bash
npm start
```

Configuration
- Use `DERIV_APP_ID` or `DERIV_WS_URL` environment variables to change the WebSocket endpoint/app_id.
- If the automatic active-symbols request does not return volatility indices in your region, set `SYMBOLS` env to a comma-separated list (e.g. `R_100,R_50`):

```bash
SYMBOLS="R_100,R_50" npm start
```

Environment variables
---------------------

This project reads configuration from environment variables. You can create a local `.env` file in the project root (this file is already listed in `.gitignore` so it won't be committed). The following variables are recognized by the script:

- `DERIV_APP_NAME` - your registered Deriv app name (example: `PURP_MATCH_31`).
- `DERIV_APP_ID` - your registered Deriv app id (example: `110873`).
- `DERIV_WS_URL` - full WebSocket URL to use instead of the default (optional). If set, it overrides `DERIV_APP_ID` when constructing the default URL.
- `DEMO_ACCOUNT_ID` - your demo Deriv account ID (optional; used by client code that needs an account id).
- `DEMO_TOKEN` - API token for your demo account (optional).
- `REAL_ACCOUNT_ID` - your real Deriv account ID (optional).
- `REAL_TOKEN` - API token for your real account (optional).
- `SYMBOLS` - optional comma-separated list of symbols to subscribe to (e.g. `R_100,R_50`). Used if the active_symbols request doesn't return volatility indices for your region.

Startup requirement
-------------------

This tool now requires a `DEMO_TOKEN` to be present in your environment at startup (for safety and to enable any authenticated API calls). Place it in a local `.env` file (ignored by git) as shown in the example, or export it in your shell before starting the tool.

Security recommendation
-----------------------

For safety, do not store real account tokens in your project's local `.env`. The local `.env` that comes with this repository intentionally omits the real token. If you must use a real token, supply it via environment variables at runtime (for example: `REAL_TOKEN=... npm start`) and never commit it to the repo.

Security note
-------------

Keep your tokens secret. Do not commit your `.env` file to version control. `.env` is already listed in `.gitignore` in this project. For sharing or public repositories, use `.env.example` (which contains placeholders) instead of real secrets.

Example `.env` (local, DO NOT COMMIT) — this file may contain real values and is ignored by git:

```
# Deriv app details
DERIV_APP_NAME=PURP_MATCH_31
DERIV_APP_ID=110873

# Optional: override full WebSocket URL
# DERIV_WS_URL=wss://ws.binaryws.com/websockets/v3?app_id=110873

# Optional account tokens (use only if your workflow requires them)
DEMO_ACCOUNT_ID=VRTC8609011
DEMO_TOKEN=NSNQ9DWt0jbqaby
REAL_ACCOUNT_ID=CR5865343
REAL_TOKEN=wQw5foftZG4lAzm

# Optional symbols
# SYMBOLS=R_100,R_50
```

Behavior
- The script will request active volatility indices from the API, subscribe to ticks for each, and every 15 seconds print a list of symbols with their latest last-digit value.

Security & ethics
- Do not use this tool to automate betting or circumvent platform safeguards. Ensure you comply with all platform rules and local laws.

Troubleshooting
- If the script exits complaining about no symbols, provide the `SYMBOLS` env variable.
- If you see connection errors, check network connectivity or whether your environment blocks WebSocket connections.

Web UI, simulation and admin API
--------------------------------

I added a simple web UI and control features:

- Visit http://localhost:3000 to see per-symbol cards with a 15s countdown and a signal display (default show duration 7s). The UI shows a progress bar for each symbol.
- Use the "Simulate" checkbox on the page to enable simulation mode: the server will generate synthetic ticks and occasional simulated errors for UI testing.
- Admin HTTP endpoints (local only):
	- GET /admin/stop — stop all per-symbol cycles
	- GET /admin/start — start cycles for currently subscribed symbols
	- GET /admin/reload — request the Deriv API to refresh active symbols (requires the app to be connected)

Production deployment (Render)
-----------------------------

To deploy the full app (backend + frontend) to Render and get a stable https URL, follow these steps:

1. Create a Git repository and push your code (run locally in the project root):

```bash
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial: deriv-last-digit app + web UI"
# create a repo on GitHub and add remote, then:
git remote add origin git@github.com:<your-username>/deriv-last-digit.git
git push -u origin main
```

2. In Render (https://render.com) create a new "Web Service" and connect your GitHub repo.

3. Set environment variables in the Render service settings (do NOT commit these to git):
- `DEMO_TOKEN` (required for startup)
- `DERIV_APP_ID` (example: `110873`)
- `DERIV_APP_NAME` (example: `PURP_MATCH_31`)
- `ADMIN_TOKEN` (recommended) — when set, admin endpoints require this token in the `x-admin-token` header
- `SYMBOLS` (optional)
- `DISPLAY_DURATION_MS` (optional)
- `ENABLE_TUNNEL` (optional; not needed on Render)

4. Build & Start
- Build command: (leave empty) or `npm install` (Render runs install automatically)
- Start command: `npm start`

Render will build and deploy your app and give you a public URL (https). Check `logs/server.log` or Render's logs for startup messages.

Security note: admin endpoints are protected by `ADMIN_TOKEN` when set; make sure to set `ADMIN_TOKEN` in Render. Avoid putting real account tokens in your Render environment unless absolutely necessary.

Logs
----

Server logs are written to `logs/server.log`. You can view recent lines at:

http://localhost:3000/logs

Tunneling
---------

To expose the UI publicly (optional), install `localtunnel` and start the server with `ENABLE_TUNNEL=true`:

ENABLE_TUNNEL=true npm start

The public URL will be logged into `logs/server.log` when the tunnel starts.

Commit message:

Add automatic trading functionality with Web UI controls
- Added trading configuration variables (TARGET_SIGNAL, TARGET_SYMBOL, NUM_TRADES, STAKE)
- Implemented automatic 'Digit Matches' trade placement when target conditions are met
- Added Web UI trading controls panel with configuration inputs and start/stop buttons
- Added trade logging and status display in Web UI
- Enhanced WebSocket message handling for trading controls and trade confirmations
- Added safety measures: demo mode only, trading enabled after authorization
- Updated README with trading instructions

README.md, after:

# deriv-last-digit

Small Node.js utility that connects to Deriv's public WebSocket API and emits the "last digit" of the latest tick for each volatility index every 15 seconds. Now includes automatic trading functionality for "Digit Matches" contracts in demo mode.

Important notes
- This tool only fetches market tick values and extracts the last digit of the numeric quote. It does not provide predictions or trading strategies.
- **Automatic trading is enabled in demo mode only** when a `DEMO_TOKEN` is provided and authorization succeeds.
- Use responsibly. Respect Deriv's terms of service, rate limits, and rules about automated access.
- **Never use real account tokens** with this tool.

Quick start

1. Install dependencies

```bash
cd ~/Desktop/deriv-last-digit
npm install
```

2. Configure trading parameters (optional)

Based on your manual chart analysis, set the target digit and symbol. For example, if you find that digit '7' appears 12.3% of the time on R_100:

```bash
# Set environment variables for trading
export TARGET_SIGNAL='7'
export TARGET_SYMBOL='R_100'
export NUM_TRADES=2  # Conservative number
export STAKE=0.5     # Low stake for testing
```

3. Run

```bash
npm start
```

The bot will analyze digit frequencies each cycle and highlight digits with 11.5%-14% occurrence. Use this data to manually verify profitable patterns before enabling automatic trading.

Configuration
- Use `DERIV_APP_ID` or `DERIV_WS_URL` environment variables to change the WebSocket endpoint/app_id.
- If the automatic active-symbols request does not return volatility indices in your region, set `SYMBOLS` env to a comma-separated list (e.g. `R_100,R_50`):

WANT```bash
SYMBOLS="R_100,R_50" npm start
```

Environment variables
---------------------

This project reads configuration from environment variables. You can create a local `.env` file in the project root (this file is already listed in `.gitignore` so it won't be committed). The following variables are recognized by the script:

- `DERIV_APP_NAME` - your registered Deriv app name (example: `PURP_MATCH_31`).
- `DERIV_APP_ID` - your registered Deriv app id (example: `110873`).
- `DERIV_WS_URL` - full WebSocket URL to use instead of the default (optional). If set, it overrides `DERIV_APP_ID` when constructing the default URL.
- `DEMO_ACCOUNT_ID` - your demo Deriv account ID (optional; used by client code that needs an account id).
- `DEMO_TOKEN` - API token for your demo account (optional).
- `REAL_ACCOUNT_ID` - your real Deriv account ID (optional).
- `REAL_TOKEN` - API token for your real account (optional). **DO NOT USE WITH THIS TOOL**.
- `SYMBOLS` - optional comma-separated list of symbols to subscribe to (e.g. `R_100,R_50`). Used if the active_symbols request doesn't return volatility indices for your region.
- `TARGET_SIGNAL` - target last digit for automatic trading (default: '9'). Set this based on your manual chart analysis.
- `TARGET_SYMBOL` - target symbol for automatic trading (default: 'R_100'). Focus on volatility indices like R_100, R_50, etc.
- `NUM_TRADES` - number of trades to place per cycle when target condition is met (default: 3). Limits exposure per cycle.
- `STAKE` - stake amount in USD for each trade (default: 1). Keep low for demo trading.

Startup requirement
-------------------

This tool now requires a `DEMO_TOKEN` to be present in your environment at startup (for safety and to enable any authenticated API calls). Place it in a local `.env` file (ignored by git) as shown in the example, or export it in your shell before starting the tool.

Security recommendation
-----------------------

For safety, do not store real account tokens in your project's local `.env`. The local `.env` that comes with this repository intentionally omits the real token. If you must use a real token, supply it via environment variables at runtime (for example: `REAL_TOKEN=... npm start`) and never commit it to the repo.

Security note
-------------

Keep your tokens secret. Do not commit your `.env` file to version control. `.env` is already listed in `.gitignore` in this project. For sharing or public repositories, use `.env.example` (which contains placeholders) instead of real secrets.

Example `.env` (local, DO NOT COMMIT) — this file may contain real values and is ignored by git:

```
# Deriv app details
DERIV_APP_NAME=PURP_MATCH_31
DERIV_APP_ID=110873

# Optional: override full WebSocket URL
# DERIV_WS_URL=wss://ws.binaryws.com/websockets/v3?app_id=110873

# Optional account tokens (use only if your workflow requires them)
DEMO_ACCOUNT_ID=VRTC8609011
DEMO_TOKEN=NSNQ9DWt0jbqaby
REAL_ACCOUNT_ID=CR5865343
REAL_TOKEN=wQw5foftZG4lAzm

# Optional symbols
# SYMBOLS=R_100,R_50
```

Behavior
- The script will request active volatility indices from the API, subscribe to ticks for each, and every 15 seconds print a list of symbols with their latest last-digit value.
- **Automatic Trading**: When enabled (after demo authorization), the bot will monitor signals during the display period. If the target symbol's last digit matches the target signal, it will automatically place up to NUM_TRADES "Digit Matches" contracts with the specified stake. Trading resets each cycle.
- **Digit Frequency Analysis**: At the end of each cycle, the bot analyzes the frequency of each digit (0-9) across all samples during the display period. It highlights digits with 11.5%-14% occurrence as recommended for trading, helping you identify profitable patterns manually before configuring automatic trading.

Security & ethics
- Do not use this tool to automate betting or circumvent platform safeguards. Ensure you comply with all platform rules and local laws.
- **Trading is strictly limited to demo accounts**. Real account tokens are explicitly not supported and should never be used.
- Automatic trading occurs only during the display period when the target conditions are met, with a maximum of NUM_TRADES per cycle.

Troubleshooting
- If the script exits complaining about no symbols, provide the `SYMBOLS` env variable.
- If you see connection errors, check network connectivity or whether your environment blocks WebSocket connections.

Web UI, simulation and admin API
--------------------------------

I added a simple web UI and control features:

- Visit http://localhost:3000 to see per-symbol cards with a 15s countdown and a signal display (default show duration 7s). The UI shows a progress bar for each symbol.
- Use the "Simulate" checkbox on the page to enable simulation mode: the server will generate synthetic ticks and occasional simulated errors for UI testing.
- Admin HTTP endpoints (local only):
	- GET /admin/stop — stop all per-symbol cycles
	- GET /admin/start — start cycles for currently subscribed symbols
	- GET /admin/reload — request the Deriv API to refresh active symbols (requires the app to be connected)

Production deployment (Render)
-----------------------------

To deploy the full app (backend + frontend) to Render and get a stable https URL, follow these steps:

1. Create a Git repository and push your code (run locally in the project root):

```bash
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial: deriv-last-digit app + web UI"
# create a repo on GitHub and add remote, then:
git remote add origin git@github.com:<your-username>/deriv-last-digit.git
git push -u origin main
```

2. In Render (https://render.com) create a new "Web Service" and connect your GitHub repo.

3. Set environment variables in the Render service settings (do NOT commit these to git):
- `DEMO_TOKEN` (required for startup)
- `DERIV_APP_ID` (example: `110873`)
- `DERIV_APP_NAME` (example: `PURP_MATCH_31`)
- `ADMIN_TOKEN` (recommended) — when set, admin endpoints require this token in the `x-admin-token` header
- `SYMBOLS` (optional)
- `DISPLAY_DURATION_MS` (optional)
- `ENABLE_TUNNEL` (optional; not needed on Render)

4. Build & Start
- Build command: (leave empty) or `npm install` (Render runs install automatically)
- Start command: `npm start`

Render will build and deploy your app and give you a public URL (https). Check `logs/server.log` or Render's logs for startup messages.

Security note: admin endpoints are protected by `ADMIN_TOKEN` when set; make sure to set `ADMIN_TOKEN` in Render. Avoid putting real account tokens in your Render environment unless absolutely necessary.

Logs
----

Server logs are written to `logs/server.log`. You can view recent lines at:

http://localhost:3000/logs

Tunneling
---------

To expose the UI publicly (optional), install `localtunnel` and start the server with `ENABLE_TUNNEL=true`:

ENABLE_TUNNEL=true npm start

The public URL will be logged into `logs/server.log` when the tunnel starts.
